Each year members of the more than 1,000 worldwide Fab Labs gather to share, discuss, collaborate and create communities around the different local and global interests regarding digital manufacturing, innovation and technology. 

This year, The 13th International Fab Lab Meeting will be held in Santiago de Chile, and "Fabricating Society" will be its central topic.

Over the past 20 years Chile has reached economic development indexes that classify it as a prosperous country in development. However, there are many gaps that exist in certain strategic dimensions that make the process of constructing a developed society quite challenging.

So the main question is, 

can Fab Labs, through their processes and methods, contribute to the construction of a society?



------

Fab 13 Santiago 2017 has three main objectives:

1. Present and develop successful projects that create a high social impact.

2. Position Chile as a Global Hub with regards to innovation and entrepreneurship.

3. Reinforce Latin America as a region focused on social development.


Five thematic strategies have been established to be conceptualized via concrete projects that will impact our context:

CITY
Since the start of the second industrial revolution, our cities have externalized the production of products and goods decontextualizing creation and territory. It is estimated that by 2050, 75% of the world’s population will live in cities.

Can cities return to producing their own objects and find solutions to their own needs?


HOUSING 
There is a need to provide a solution to the housing problem that exists in Latin America. Housing for families at social risk is, for the most part, self-built and constructed on land that’s segregated from the city.


INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Fab Labs are manufacturing platforms that allow conventional production schemes to be challenged. In this sense, Fab Labs can be a complement to the industry, which in turn can be strengthened by their capacity to produce innovative objects using digital language. In the same way, Fab Labs can also support entrepreneurs as they turn prototypes into products.


ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY

According to the OMS, Chile is home to two of the most polluted cities in Latin America, Coyhaique and Santiago de Chile. However, Chile is a country rich in hydraulic, geothermic and solar energy, amongst others. So how can these resources be positively put to use to resolve direct needs concerning inhabitants?


EDUCATION

Fab Labs are learning environments in which anyone can manufacture (almost) anything. Empowering people to find their own solutions to challenges they have is achieved thanks to learning methods based on projects that are transferrable to children, students, profesionals, entrepreneurs, senior citizens and people without formal education.


DECENTRALIZATION

Given Chile’s geographic extension and the gradual growth of each of its regions, Santiago, the capital, concentrates practically 40% of the total population. As this will be an event of tremendous public interest, on both a national and international level, and with the objective of amplifying the impact of this meeting, we have decided to extend its reach to the regions, creating the Off Lab, in which various members of Fab Labs’ world network will travel to some of the country’s regions to develop activities, workshops, talks and to participate in regional festivals.




